>> Gill: This is your
"Marketplace."
Attention outlet shoppers.
>> I shop at outlets because I
get deals. Good deals
>> I think I'm getting a better
deal.
>> Gill: But when is a deal not
a deal?
>> Charlsie: One's from retail,
one's from the outlet.
Can spot the difference?
>> You're not really often
getting anything that's a big
bargain.
>> Very informative, I'm glad I
met you here.
>> Gill: Plus Winners or
losers?
>> Totally betrayed.
it was out and out false
advertising.
>> Gill: And get ready,
get set.
It's a fashion time bomb.
"Marketplace," always in step
with the times.
(♪♪)
>> Charlsie: We're taking you
on a road trip to one of the
largest outdoor outlet malls in
the country, outlet collection
at Niagara, shopping for the
truth.
Bargain hunting at outlet malls
is all the rage these days.
>> Charlsie: Why do you shop at
outlets?
>> I shop at outlets because I
get deals.
Good deals.
>> The selection and the brands
that are here.
>> Charlsie: Big names and
popular brands promising high
fashion looks for less.
>> So do you think you're
getting a good deal outlet
shopping?
>> I think I'm getting a better
deal, yeah.
>> We know we're getting a
good deal.
>> Charlsie: Sounds good but is
there something you're not
being told?
We're going to let you in on
some fashion industry secrets
that will help you score a real
deal.
So what do you think about the
quality of the stuff that
you're getting here at the
outlet compared to the retail
location?
>> I think they're pretty of
the same.
>> Oh, I don't think there's
any difference whatsoever.
>> So are we getting a better
deal or are we getting screwed?
>> So this is recording.
>> Charlsie: To find out, we're
taking you undercover, heading
into four popular outlet
stores.
Coach, Kate Spade, J.
crew and Banana Republic.
Time to go shopping.
(♪♪)
>> Charlsie: First off, Coach.
>> Charlsie: A house hold name
when it comes to purses.
>> Charlsie: We pick one up
from the outlet and pick up a
similar purse from a Coach
retail store.
So are you getting the same
retail quality from popular
brands, just at a lower price?
We take our purses to someone
who knows fashion inside out.
clothing designer
Hilary MacMillan.
>> Okay, let's start with these
red Coach purses.
One's from retail, one's
from the outlet.
Can you spot the difference?
>> I'm looking at the quality
of the zippers, I'm looking at
the lining that they've chosen,
the stitch work around the
seams, as well.
>> Charlsie: Same label, two
different bags.
That's because one of them was
made just for the outlets.
>> And I'm also noticing how
this inside of this bag
actually has the Coach
monogrammed on the lining,
where as this one doesn't which
kind of leads me to think that
this is a little bit more
higher quality than this one.
>> Charlsie: Whether made for
retail or outlet, Coach insists
all of its products are made
from the finest quality
leathers and fabrics.
>> What's the number one
difference would you say?
>> I would say the leather,
really.
This one is heavier, a little
bit better, this one is a
little bit lighter.
So that's going to weather
better and are this one won't
as much.
>> Charlsie: Last longer?
>> Yeah.
>> Charlsie: Her verdict?
>> This one's retail and this
one's outlet.
>> Charlsie: Well, you are
correct.
>> Yay!
(Laughing)
>> Charlsie: Are they the only
ones pulling a fashion fast
one?
To find out we're off to outlet
number two.
J crew, a popular preppy label.
Will they fess up to the
differences?
>> Charlsie: We pick up this
men's Merino wool sweater and
track down a sales clerk.
>> Charlsie: So not the same as
retail, but what about the
quality?
>> Charlsie: Really?
Still great quality?
To find out if that's true, I'm
going to one of the fashion
capitals of the world,
New York City.
To meet up with a bargain
shopping expert who's going to
reveal what the stores would
rather you didn't know.
Meet Mark Ellwood.
What do you make of the quality
of the products that you're
getting at outlet stores,
versus a retail location?
>> This stock was largely made
just to be sold cheaply so
they're going to cut corners.
>> Charlsie: So how can you
spot the difference?
>> It's really, really, really
simple.
Can you see, one of those
labels has two diamonds on it.
>> Charlsie: Yeah.
>> And that says this was made
for the outlets.
>> Charlsie: Do you think that
most people know that when
they're going into an outlet,
they're not getting the same
retail merchandise?
>> This is a trick of the
outlets.
Almost no one realizes or wants
to realize that when you walk
into an outlet store, you're
not really often getting
anything that's a big bargain.
I think that's really unfair.
>> Charlsie: J crew doesn't
think so.
They say they make sure their
outlet products preserve the
quality and design you expect
from their brand.
All right, I'm going, this one
is retail and this one's
outlet.
>> Charlsie: But fashion
designer Hilary MacMillan isn't
fooled.
>> Tags tell you where things
are made a little more
intricately.
See on this one, this one's
kind of -- has a lot more
information than this one here?
>> Charlsie: Hilary says the
retail sweater?
A better buy.
>> Softer so it has a
softer hem so the feeling is a
little bit better.
>> Charlsie: Will it last
longer?
>> Yeah, 100%.
If you take care of it,
it will last longer.
>> Charlsie: We break the news
about our findings.
The quality of what you're
getting at the outlet is not
the same as the retail
location.
>> Oh, that's sad.
(Laughing)
No, I was thinking
I was getting the same quality.
Well that sucks.
>> Charlsie: You didn't know?
>> No, actually I didn't.
>> Well I'm feeling ripped off
right now.
>> Me too.
>> Charlsie: See those two
diamonds?
>> Okay, yeah.
>> Charlsie: That's how you
can tell.
Factory outlet only has those
two diamonds.
>> Oh, wow, good to know.
>> Charlsie: Okay?
So there you go.
Now you know.
>> I learned something while I
shopped.
>> You sure did.
>> Charlsie: Next stop?
Kate Spade, a fashion icon with
over 450 stores around the
world.
>> Charlsie: Lots of deals
here, too, we pick up a wallet
here at the outlet
and one from the retail store.
>> First of all I want you to
look at this.
Can you see that the logos are
not the same.
>> Charlsie: Yes.
Clearly, yes.
>> One is larger and one has a
little button.
>> Charlsie: Yeah.
With Kate Spade, this gem tells
you it was made for retail.
The stamped version?
You're only going to find that
at the outlets.
Our fashion expert can easily
tell the difference in quality.
>> All right, so what I'm
looking at here is at the
leather.
That's kind of a big dead
giveaway for me.
This leather is nicer than this
leather, in my opinion.
I have decided, I think this
one is retail and this one's
outlet.
>> Charlsie: Right again.
>> In terms of longevity and
lasting, this one's a better
bang for your buck.
>> Charlsie: We've got one
more stop.
Banana Republic's factory
outlet.
They promise the brand's look
for less.
So what do we find here?
We pick up this pair of men's
Pants and buy a similar pair
from one of their retail
stores.
But when we asked them about
the difference?
>> Really?
Our fashion expert says there
are obvious differences between
the outlet and retail pants we
bought.
>> So these are plastic
buttons, and that is a metal
clasp.
They are different zippers,
though.
This one has the label on it,
on the actual zipper tag.
It says Banana Republic And
this one just says YKK, which
is a brand of zippers that
anyone can buy.
That leads me to think that
this is a more high quality
product.
They spent more time and money
on the little things in here.
>> Charlsie: So Hilary, what's
your answer?
>> These are retail and these
are outlet.
>> Charlsie: She's right.
Again.
And Banana Republic confirms
the products in its outlet
stores are never sold at its
retail stores.
But you don't have to be an
expert to see the difference.
If you look a little closer,
you'll see these three diamonds
on their label.
Similar to J crew, this means
they're made just for the
Banana Republic outlet.
That's a tip we want to share
with shoppers.
That means it's factory only.
>> Oh, is that right?
That's very informative.
I'm glad I met you here.
Next time I'll be looking for
those diamonds now.
>> Charlsie: That's what we're
all about in "Marketplace."
>> I think it's a rip off then.
It's just not being fair to the
consumers.
>> Charlsie: In the U.S.,
Banana Republic's parent
company is being sued for
misleading customers into
thinking they're getting retail
quality at a discount.
>> I'm not surprised that facts
like this have resulted in
lawsuits, because I think
people feel ripped off.
It may not be illegal but it
feels kind of unfair.
>> Charlsie: Some outlets do
sell retail for less, but
chances are, what you're going
to find at most outlet stores
is made just for them.
>> Some of the estimates,
between 60 and 70%, up to 85%
of items in an outlet store
were never seen anywhere else.
>> Charlsie: But our expert
says that might not stop people
from trying to find a
great deal.
>> I call it Buyagra.
>> Charlsie: Buyagra?
>> Buyagra.
>> Charlsie: What is Buyagra?
>> We have a chemical response
to a sale sign.
Our brains are pre-programmed to
go crazy when we see a sale.
The problem is you're probably
going to get a better deal
shopping the sale at a
department store than spending
the day browsing an outlet
malls.
>> Charlsie: But if you're
still planning on taking that
road trip to the outlets, pack
this advice.
>> If you see a price in an
outlet store that's $20 bucks,
that product was developed to
sell at $20 bucks.
It was costed that way, the raw
materials, the labour.
That tells you that it could be
really cute, but is it going to
last forever?
I doubt it.
>> Gill: Think you're a bargain
hunter?
You may be the target.
>> It was out and out false
advertising.
>> Gill: And we take a retro
shopping trip and step on some
toes.
Deal or no deal?
Spot the differences between
outlets and retail products at
Facebook.com/CBCmarketplace.
>> Gill: This is your
"Marketplace."
(♪♪)
Ready, set, it's a
"Marketplace" time bomb,
circa 1975.
Fashion forward, retro style.
>> High heels, platforms, boots.
If they're popular, there's
bound to be controversy, and
experts who will predict dire
things, like there will be a
dangerous driver.
Negative heel shoes, they're
called.
The first ones, earth shoes,
were designed by a danish yoga
teacher, Anna Kalso.
They were to make walking more
natural, like walking barefoot
in the sand.
>> I was looking for something
helping people to feeling
better, and this is the posture
for breathing.
And when you take this on, you
are standing in a normal
posture.
And I feel a lightness, get
less tired, and are better off
in getting rid of the pollution
we breathe in because the
breathing is much improved.
>> How about earth shoes for
children?
>> We have started making a
special sole for children, but
it is a big responsibility.
>> Any adult, they can probably
do very little in the way of
harm.
In a child, however, with
growing bones and growing
tendons and muscle, regrettably
there's a lot of harm that can
be done.
>> They like their negative
heel shoes, but we hope their
shoes like them.
>> Charlsie: The hunt for the
latest fashion continues, with
stores promising the latest
looks for low prices.
So are you getting a good deal
or just getting duped?
>> Hi "Marketplace," I'm
Jennifer Johnson from Oshawa,
Ontario, and I feel totally
betrayed and misled by Winners.
>> Charlsie: Jennifer used to
love shopping there.
>> What is it about Winners
that first attracted you to
this store?
>> I'm always in for a bargain.
I don't like to pay full price
for my clothing but I'd still
like to be able to have a good
selection and Winners does
have a good selection of
clothing.
♪ just one look ♪
♪ and I fell so hard ♪
>> All of the love, all up to
60% less.
Winners, find fabulous for
less.
>> Charlsie: Fabulous for less?
Sounds good.
Jennifer thought so, too, when
she went shopping for a pair of
pants.
>> The Winners tag said was
$29.99 and on their tag it said
compare at $80.
>> Charlsie: Yup.
Take a closer look.
There are two prices on their
tags, the Winners price and
something called the compare
at price.
That price tells you how much
you're supposedly saving by
shopping at Winners, but that's
not what Jennifer found.
>> Right next to that tag was
the manufacturers pre-printed
tag, and the price on that tag
was $29.99.
So where's the discount in
that?
That experience made me very
indignant, very angry, very
frustrated and totally
betrayed.
Totally betrayed.
It was out and out false
advertising.
>> There's a camera there.
Put it over your shoulder.
>> Charlsie: To test Winners
compare at pricing, we're
sending in some secret
shoppers.
Chelsea, Darryl and Melissa
work for us, and today they're
going under cover to do a
little price comparison.
>> Okay, guys, here we are,
outside of Winners.
Now here's your mission.
We are testing compare at
prices, so we'd like you to go
in and do a little bit of price
checking for us.
Up for the challenge?
>> Yeah.
>> Let's do it.
>> Okay, here's your allowance.
One for you, and you.
>> Thank you.
>> Charlsie: All right, get to
it and good luck.
>> Charlsie: Our testers are
looking for big savings.
>> Charlsie: From clothing,
perfume, even toys, they're
buying it all.
>> Charlsie: While they're in
store, I'm in New York City,
Getting the fashion 4-1-1 from
shopping expert Mark Ellwood.
The idea of this compare at
pricing, what do you make
of it?
>> Compare at pricing is one of
those tricks that works on the
way our brains are structured.
When we see two numbers, we
instantly look at the higher
one and take notice of it.
It's called anchor pricing.
We see a hundred and the minute
we see a hundred and then
twenty, we see the difference.
>> Charlsie: Can you trust the
numbers you see on the price
tags?
In Toronto, products in hand,
our secret Shoppers cash-out.
And bring all their shopping
bags back to CBC to do a little
digging.
>> Charlsie: So now that you're
here let's look these products
up online and see how much
they cost.
Our price geek squad gets
clicking.
When you learn the truth,
you're going to want answers.
>> Charlsie: Nobody in this
great big building can talk to
us today?
>> Gill: Get our newsletter,
your cheatsheet to the news
you need.
>> Gill: This is your
"Marketplace".
>> Charlsie: We're taking a
close look at Winners price
tags to see if you're getting
the savings they promised.
Our secret shoppers have
finished their undercover
shopping trip and now they're
looking online to see how
accurate compare at prices
really are.
So you're searching for the
wallet?
>> Yeah, I'm trying to but I
haven't been able to find this
model at all.
>> I'm just looking for this
shaver here.
I just haven't been able to
find this specific one
quite yet.
>> Charlsie: In many cases we
can't seem to find the products
for sale at other retailers so
we have no idea if these
compare at prices are legit.
We do find some products
selling at the same price or
more expensive than the compare
at price.
>> So I've got the Nautica
light energy cologne here.
So I found it on Sears, Sears
Canada, and it's $60 and
compare at was $60, as well.
>> Hey, Charlsie, I found that
risk board game.
So we paid $49.99 and Winners
had their compare at at $100
and I found it here at F.G.
Bradley's for $74.99.
>> I found another one, it's a
Bally total fitness ball and it
is $19.97 at Walmart.ca and we
paid $19.99 at Winners and the
compare at price was $30.
>> Over and over, our team
finds similar products they
bought for sale at other
retailers cheaper than the
Winners compare at price.
Winners says the compare at
price is a fair assessment, but
given our findings, makes you
wonder how much you can
rely on it.
When we're shopping and we see
a compare at price, how much
trust should we be putting in
that tag.
>> Absolutely zero.
No trust at all in that compare
at price.
That could have been plucked
from thin air.
>> Charlsie: So it's a clear
tactic, no doubt about it.
>> There is a complete tactic
to most of the labels in
off-price stores.
Those words could be elephant
cupcake.
They mean nothing.
>> Charlsie: But those words
meant a lot to Jennifer
Johnston.
The Winners price on a pair of
pants was $29.99.
The compare at price?
$80.
Making her believe she was
saving big, but she soon
realized that wasn't the case.
>> Good morning, how may I help
you?
>> Now she's calling Winners to
share her frustration.
>> Can you help explain how you
come up with the compare at
pricing on your tags?
>> Um, no, actually, that's not
-- I wouldn't be able to.
Compare at, I guess that's the
buyers that would do that,
not us.
>> Okay, but it's on your tag,
so where does that price come
from?
>> Just a moment.
I'll put you on hold.
>> Charlsie: When the customer
service agent comes back --
>> Yes, okay, I've been told
that our buyers will contact
other vendors and, that sell
the same product and compare
the prices, and that's how we
reach our price.
>> Well, it's just unfortunate
that this is happening, and I
feel totally lied to.
>> Charlsie: A few days later
in an e-mail to Jennifer,
Winners says it was an error.
Compare at pricing has landed
Winners parent company, TJX in
hot water.
Turns out, in the U.S.,
they're being sued for using
deceptive, comparative prices
to trick customers into
believing they're saving money
on brand name items.
We asked Winners to come on
camera to talk about their
compare at pricing, several
times.
But they say no.
So we're going to their head
office to see if they'll
reconsider.
>> Charlsie: Hello.
>> How are you?
>> Charlsie: I'm Charlsie Agro
from CBC "Marketplace."
I'm here to see president
Doug Mizzi.
>> Hi Sharron, it's Grace.
I have CBC "Marketplace" here.
Someone's going to be right
down.
>> Charlsie: Great, thank you
so much.
Doug Mizzi is TJX Canada's
president but he's a no-show.
>> You're not recording me now
are we?
>> We are, I'm Charlsie Agro
from CBC "Marketplace."
>> The only thing I can suggest
is get in touch with Shannon.
She'll have some answers
for you.
>> We've tried Shannon several
times.
No one in this great big
building can talk to us today?
>> The only person I'm aware of
that can help is Shannon.
>> We get referred to
communications,
but they're not taking our call.
>> Canadians are feeling misled
by your compare at pricing and
we'd really like to hear what
you have to say about that.
No answer.
In an e-mail, Winners tells us
they stand by their compare at
prices but say sometimes errors
can occur.
After sharing our findings with
Winners, they say they're going
to reticket a few of the
products we bought and remove
the compare at price.
Makes you wonder why they can't
get rid of compare at prices on
all of their products.
>> When you see the words
compare at, ignore them.
Put your hands over that higher
price and focus just on the
cost of the goods.
>> Chances are, if it's too
cheap to be true then it
probably is.
Chances are, if it's too cheap,
it was made to be cheap.
So it can be cute but it's not
a bargain.
>> Oh my God!
>> Gill: What could be lurking
in that bling?
We go all the way to China to
find out.
>> He uses cadmium?
>> Yes.
>> And why?
>> Very cheap.
>> Cheap.
>> And ask Canadian stores why
they are selling toxic
jewellery to teens.
>> Yeah, we heard you, we heard
you, I just have to say though,
as a consumer --
>> I do understand --
>> I don't think you understand
so I'd like to finish my
thought and then I'll go
outside.
(♪♪)